README.md, before:

# BigML.io Python bindings

In this repository you'll find an open source Python module that gives
you a simple binding to interact with [BigML](https://bigml.io). You
can use it to easily create, retrieve, list, update, and delete BigML
resources (i.e., sources, datasets, models and, predictions).

This module is licensed under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

## Support

Please, report problems and bugs to our
[BigML.io issue tracker](https://github.com/bigmlcom/io/issues)

Discussions about the different bindings take place in the general
[BigML mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/bigml). Or join us
in our [Campfire chatroom](https://bigmlinc.campfirenow.com/f20a0)

## Requirements

Python 2.6 and Python 2.7 are currently supported by these bindings.

The only mandatory third-party dependency is the
[requests](https://github.com/kennethreitz/requests) library.  This
library is automatically installed during the setup.

The bindings will also use `simplejson` if you happen to have it
installed, but that is optional: we fall back to Python's built-in
JSON libraries is `simplejson` is not found.

## Installation

To install:

```bash
$ python setup.py install
```

You can also install the bindings directly from this git repository
using `pip`:

```bash
$ pip install -e git://github.com/bigmlcom/python.git#egg=bigml_python
```

## Importing the module

```python
import bigml.api
```

Alternatively you can just import the BigML class:

```python
from bigml.api import BigML
```
## Authentication

All the requests to BigML.io must be authenticated using your username
and [API key](https://bigml.com/account/apikey) and are always
transmitted over HTTPS.

This module will look for your username and API key in the environment
variables `BIGML_USERNAME` and `BIGML_API_KEY` respectively.  You can
add the following lines to your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` to set
those variables automatically when you log in:


```bash
export BIGML_USERNAME=myusername
export BIGML_API_KEY=ae579e7e53fb9abd646a6ff8aa99d4afe83ac291
```

With that environment set up, connecting to BigML is a breeze:

```python
from bigml.api import BigML
api = BigML()
```

Otherwise, you can can initialize directly when instantiating the
BigML class as follows.


```python
api = BigML('myusername', 'ae579e7e53fb9abd646a6ff8aa99d4afe83ac291')
```

## Running the Tests

To run the tests you will need to install
[lettuce](http://packages.python.org/lettuce/tutorial/simple.html):

```bash
$ pip install lettuce
```

and set up your authentication via environment variables, as explained
above.  With that in place, you can run the test suite simply by:

```bash
$ cd tests
$ lettuce
```

Additionally, [Tox](http://tox.testrun.org/) can be used to automatically
run the test suite in virtual environments for all supported Python
versions. To install Tox:

```bash
$ pip install tox
```

Then run the tests from the top-level project directory:

```bash
$ tox
```

Note that tox checks the exit status from the test command (lettuce) to
determine pass/fail, but the latest version of lettuce (0.2.5)
erroneously exits with a non-zero exit status indicating an error. So,
tox will report failures even if the test suite is passing. This
[should be fixed](https://github.com/gabrielfalcao/lettuce/pull/270) in
the next release of lettuce.

## Quick Start

Imagine that you want to use
[this csv file](https://static.bigml.com/csv/iris.csv) containing the
[Iris flower dataset](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_flower_data_set)
to predict the species of a flower whose `sepal length` is `5` and
whose `sepal width` is `2.5`. A preview of the dataset is shown
below. It has 4 numeric fields: `sepal length`, `sepal width`, `petal
length`, `petal width` and a categorical field: `species`. By default,
BigML considers the last field in the dataset as the objective field
(i.e., the field that you want to generate predictions for).

```csv
sepal length,sepal width,petal length,petal width,species
5.1,3.5,1.4,0.2,Iris-setosa
4.9,3.0,1.4,0.2,Iris-setosa
4.7,3.2,1.3,0.2,Iris-setosa
...
5.8,2.7,3.9,1.2,Iris-versicolor
6.0,2.7,5.1,1.6,Iris-versicolor
5.4,3.0,4.5,1.5,Iris-versicolor
...
6.8,3.0,5.5,2.1,Iris-virginica
5.7,2.5,5.0,2.0,Iris-virginica
5.8,2.8,5.1,2.4,Iris-virginica
```

You can easily generate a prediction following these steps:

```python
from bigml.api import BigML

api = BigML()

source = api.create_source('./data/iris.csv')
dataset = api.create_dataset(source)
model = api.create_model(dataset)
prediction = api.create_prediction(model, {'sepal length': 5, 'sepal width': 2.5})
```

You can then print the prediction using the `pprint` method.

```python
api.pprint(prediction)
```

You'll see:

```python
species for {"sepal width": 2.5, "sepal length": 5} is Iris-virginica
```

## Fields

BigML automatically generates idenfiers for each field. To see the
fields and the ids and types that have been assigned to a source you
can use `get_fields`:

```python
source = api.get_source(source)
api.pprint(api.get_fields(source))
```

and you'll get:

```python
{   u'000000': {   u'column_number': 0,
                   u'name': u'sepal length',
                   u'optype': u'numeric'},
    u'000001': {   u'column_number': 1,
                   u'name': u'sepal width',
                   u'optype': u'numeric'},
    u'000002': {   u'column_number': 2,
                   u'name': u'petal length',
                   u'optype': u'numeric'},
    u'000003': {   u'column_number': 3,
                   u'name': u'petal width',
                   u'optype': u'numeric'},
    u'000004': {   u'column_number': 4,
                   u'name': u'species',
                   u'optype': u'categorical'}}
```

## Dataset

If you want to get some basic statistics for each field you can
retrieve the `fields` from the dataset as follows:

```python
dataset = api.get_dataset(dataset)
api.pprint(api.get_fields(dataset))
```

You will get a dictionary keyed by field id:

```python
{   u'000000': {   u'column_number': 0,
                   u'datatype': u'double',
                   u'name': u'sepal length',
                   u'optype': u'numeric',
                   u'summary': {   u'maximum': 7.9,
                                   u'median': 5.77889,
                                   u'minimum': 4.3,
                                   u'missing_count': 0,
                                   u'population': 150,
                                   u'splits': [   4.51526,
                                                  4.67252,
                                                  4.81113,

                     [... snip ... ]


    u'000004': {   u'column_number': 4,
                   u'datatype': u'string',
                   u'name': u'species',
                   u'optype': u'categorical',
                   u'summary': {   u'categories': [   [   u'Iris-versicolor',
                                                          50],
                                                      [u'Iris-setosa', 50],
                                                      [   u'Iris-virginica',
                                                          50]],
                                   u'missing_count': 0}}}
```

## Model

One of the greatest things about BigML is that the models that it
generates for you are fully white-boxed. To get the model for the
example above you can retrieve it as follows:

```python
model = api.get_model(model)
api.pprint(model['object']['model']['root'])
```

You will get a explicit tree-like predictive model:

```python
{u'children': [
  {u'children': [
    {u'children': [{u'count': 38,
                    u'distribution': [[u'Iris-virginica', 38]],
                    u'output': u'Iris-virginica',
                    u'predicate': {u'field': u'000002',
                    u'operator': u'>',
                    u'value': 5.05}},
                    u'children': [

                        [ ... ]

                       {u'count': 50,
                        u'distribution': [[u'Iris-setosa', 50]],
                        u'output': u'Iris-setosa',
                        u'predicate': {u'field': u'000002',
                                       u'operator': u'<=',
                                       u'value': 2.45}}]},
                    {u'count': 150,
                     u'distribution': [[u'Iris-virginica', 50],
                                       [u'Iris-versicolor', 50],
                                       [u'Iris-setosa', 50]],
                     u'output': u'Iris-virginica',
                     u'predicate': True}]}}}
```

(Note that we have abbreviated the output in the snippet above for
readability: the full predictive model you'll get is going to contain
much more details).

## Creating Resources

Newly-created resources are returned in a dictionary with the
following keys:

* **code**: If the request is successful you will get a
    `bigml.api.HTTP_CREATED` (201) status code. Otherwise, it will be
    one of the standard HTTP error codes
    [detailed in the documentation](https://bigml.com/developers/status_codes).
* **resource**: The identifier of the new resource.
* **location**: The location of the new resource.
* **object**: The resource itself, as computed by BigML.
* **error**: If an error occurs and the resource cannot be created, it
    will contain an additional code and a description of the error. In
    this case, **location**, and **resource** will be `None`.

### Statuses

Please, bear in mind that resource creation is almost always
asynchronous (**predictions** are the only exception). Therefore, when
you create a new source, a new dataset or a new model, even if you
receive an immediate response from the BigML servers, the full
creation of the resource can take from a few seconds to a few days,
depending on the size of the resource and BigML's load. A resource is
not fully created until its status is `bigml.api.FINISHED`. See the
[documentation on status codes](https://bigml.com/developers/status_codes)
for the listing of potential states and their semantics.  So depending
on your application you might need to import the following constants.

```python
bigml.api import WAITING
bigml.api import QUEUED
bigml.api import STARTED
bigml.api import IN_PROGRESS
bigml.api import SUMMARIZED
bigml.api import FINISHED
bigml.api import FAULTY
bigml.api import UNKNOWN
bigml.api import RUNNABLE
```

You can query the status of any resource with the `status` method.

```python
api.status(source)
api.status(dataset)
api.status(model)
api.status(prediction)
```

Before invoking the creation of a new resource, the library checks
that the status of the resource that is passed as a parameter is
`FINISHED`. You can change how often the status will be checked with
the `wait_time` argument. By default, it is set to 3 seconds.

### Creating sources

To create a source from a local data file, you can use the
`create_source` method. The only required parameter is the path to the
data file. You can use a second optional parameter to specify any of
the options for source creation described in the
[BigML API documentation](https://bigml.com/developers/sources).

Here's a sample invocation:

```python

from bigml.api import BigML
api = BigML()

source = api.create_source('./data/iris.csv',
    {'name': 'my source', 'source_parser': {'missing_tokens': ['?']}})
```

or you may want to create a source from a file in a remote location:

```python

source = api.create_source('s3://bigml-public/csv/iris.csv',
    {'name': 'my remote source', 'source_parser': {'missing_tokens': ['?']}})
```

As already mentioned, source creation is asynchronous: the initial
resource status code will be either `WAITING` or `QUEUED`. You can
retrieve the updated status at any time using the corresponding get
method. For example, to get the status of our source we would use:

```python
api.status(source)
```

### Creating datasets

Once you have created a source, you can create a dataset. The only
required argument to create a dataset is a source id. You can add all
the additional arguments accepted by BigML and documented
[here](https://bigml.com/developers/datasets).

For example, to create a dataset named "my dataset" with the first
1024 bytes of a source, you can submit the following request:

```python
dataset = api.create_dataset(source, {"name": "my dataset", "size": 1024})
```

Upon success, the dataset creation job will be queued for execution,
and you can follow its evolution using `api.status(dataset)`.

### Creating models

Once you have created a dataset, you can create a model. The only
required argument to create a model is a dataset id. You can also
include in the request all the additional arguments accepted by BigML
and documented [here](https://bigml.com/developers/models).

For example, to create a model only including the first two fields and
the first 10 instances in the dataset, you can use the following
invocation:

```python
model = api.create_model(dataset, {
    "name": "my model", "input_fields": ["000000", "000001"], "range": [1, 10]})
```

Again, the model is scheduled for creation, and you can retrieve its
status at any time by means of `api.status(model)` .

### Creating predictions

You can now use the model resource identifier together with some input
parameters to ask for predictions, using the `create_prediction`
method. You can also give the prediction a name.

```python
prediction = api.create_prediction(model,
                                   {"sepal length": 5,
                                    "sepal width": 2.5},
                                    {"name": "my prediction"})
```

To see the prediction you can use `pprint`:

```python
api.pprint(prediction)
```

## Reading Resources

When retrieved individually, resources are returned as a dictionary
identical to the one you get when you create a new resource. However,
the status code will be `bigml.api.HTTP_OK` if the resource can be
retrieved without problems, or one of the HTTP standard error codes
otherwise.

## Listing Resources

You can list resources with the appropriate api method:

```python
api.list_sources()
api.list_datasets()
api.list_models()
api.list_predictions()
```

you will receive a dictionary with the following keys:

* **code**: If the request is successful you will get a
    `bigml.api.HTTP_OK` (200) status code. Otherwise, it will be one
    of the standard HTTP error codes. See
    [BigML documentation on status codes](https://bigml.com/developers/status_codes)
    for more info.
* **meta**: A dictionary including the following keys that can help
  you paginate listings:
    * **previous**: Path to get the previous page or `None` if there is
        no previous page.
    * **next**: Path to get the next page or `None` if there is no next
        page.
    * **offset**: How far off from the first entry in the resources is
        the first one listed in the resources key.
    * **limit**: Maximum number of resources that you will get listed
        in the resources key.
    * **total_count**: The total number of resources in BigML.
* **objects**: A list of resources as returned by BigML.
* **error**: If an error occurs and the resource cannot be created, it
    will contain an additional code and a description of the error. In
    this case, **meta**, and **resources** will be `None`.

### Filtering Resources

You can filter resources in listings using the syntax and fields
labeled as *filterable* in the
[BigML documentation](https://bigml.com/developers) for each resource.

A few examples:

#### Ids of the first 5 sources created before April 1st, 2012

```python
[source['resource'] for source in
  api.list_sources("limit=5;created__lt=2012-04-1")['objects']]
```

#### Name of the first 10 datasets bigger than 1MB

```python
[dataset['name'] for dataset in
  api.list_datasets("limit=10;size__gt=1048576")['objects']]
```

#### Name of models with more than 5 fields (columns)

```python
[model['name'] for model in api.list_models("columns__gt=5")['objects']]
```

#### Ids of predictions whose model has not been deleted

```python
[prediction['resource'] for prediction in
  api.list_predictions("model_status=true")['objects']]
```


### Ordering Resources

You can order resources in listings using the syntax and fields
labeled as *sortable* in the
[BigML documentation](https://bigml.com/developers) for each resource.

A few examples:

#### Name of sources ordered by size

```python
[source['name'] for source in api.list_sources("order_by=size")['objects']]
```

#### Number of instances in datasets created before April 1st, 2012 ordered by size

```python
[dataset['rows'] for dataset in
  api.list_datasets("created__lt=2012-04-1;order_by=size")['objects']]
```

#### Model ids ordered by number of predictions (in descending order).

```python
[model['resource'] for model in
  api.list_models("order_by=-number_of_predictions")['objects']]
```

#### Name of predictions ordered by name.

```python
[prediction['name'] for prediction in
  api.list_predictions("order_by=name")['objects']]
```

## Updating Resources

When you update a resource, it is returned in a dictionary exactly
like the one you get when you create a new one. However the status
code will be `bigml.api.HTTP_ACCEPTED` if the resource can be updated
without problems or one of the HTTP standard error codes otherwise.

```python
api.update_source(source, {"name": "new name"})
api.update_dataset(dataset, {"name": "new name"})
api.update_model(model, {"name": "new name"})
api.update_prediction(prediction, {"name": "new name"})
```

## Deleting Resources

Resources can be deleted individually using the corresponding method
for each type of resource.

```python
api.delete_source(source)
api.delete_dataset(dataset)
api.delete_model(model)
api.delete_prediction(prediction)
```

Each of the calls above will return a dictionary with the following
keys:

* **code** If the request is successful, the code will be a
  `bigml.api.HTTP_NO_CONTENT` (204) status code. Otherwise, it wil be
  one of the standard HTTP error codes. See the
  [documentation on status codes](https://bigml.com/developers/status_codes)
  for more info.
* **error** If the request does not succeed, it will contain a
  dictionary with an error code and a message. It will be `None`
  otherwise.

Commit message:

Support for develop mode
Originally authored by osroca (cf. closed pull request #5, which
contains the original changes).

README.md, after:

# BigML.io Python bindings

In this repository you'll find an open source Python module that gives
you a simple binding to interact with [BigML](https://bigml.io). You
can use it to easily create, retrieve, list, update, and delete BigML
resources (i.e., sources, datasets, models and, predictions).

This module is licensed under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

## Support

Please, report problems and bugs to our
[BigML.io issue tracker](https://github.com/bigmlcom/io/issues)

Discussions about the different bindings take place in the general
[BigML mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/bigml). Or join us
in our [Campfire chatroom](https://bigmlinc.campfirenow.com/f20a0)

## Requirements

Python 2.6 and Python 2.7 are currently supported by these bindings.

The only mandatory third-party dependency is the
[requests](https://github.com/kennethreitz/requests) library.  This
library is automatically installed during the setup.

The bindings will also use `simplejson` if you happen to have it
installed, but that is optional: we fall back to Python's built-in
JSON libraries is `simplejson` is not found.

## Installation

To install:

```bash
$ python setup.py install
```

You can also install the bindings directly from this git repository
using `pip`:

```bash
$ pip install -e git://github.com/bigmlcom/python.git#egg=bigml_python
```

## Importing the module

```python
import bigml.api
```

Alternatively you can just import the BigML class:

```python
from bigml.api import BigML
```
## Authentication

All the requests to BigML.io must be authenticated using your username
and [API key](https://bigml.com/account/apikey) and are always
transmitted over HTTPS.

This module will look for your username and API key in the environment
variables `BIGML_USERNAME` and `BIGML_API_KEY` respectively.  You can
add the following lines to your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` to set
those variables automatically when you log in:


```bash
export BIGML_USERNAME=myusername
export BIGML_API_KEY=ae579e7e53fb9abd646a6ff8aa99d4afe83ac291
```

With that environment set up, connecting to BigML is a breeze:

```python
from bigml.api import BigML
api = BigML()
```

Otherwise, you can initialize directly when instantiating the
BigML class as follows.

```python
api = BigML('myusername', 'ae579e7e53fb9abd646a6ff8aa99d4afe83ac291')
```

Also, you can initialize the library to work in the Sandbox
environment by passing the parameter `dev_mode`:

```
api = BigML(dev_mode=True)
```

## Running the Tests

To run the tests you will need to install
[lettuce](http://packages.python.org/lettuce/tutorial/simple.html):

```bash
$ pip install lettuce
```

and set up your authentication via environment variables, as explained
above.  With that in place, you can run the test suite simply by:

```bash
$ cd tests
$ lettuce
```

Additionally, [Tox](http://tox.testrun.org/) can be used to automatically
run the test suite in virtual environments for all supported Python
versions. To install Tox:

```bash
$ pip install tox
```

Then run the tests from the top-level project directory:

```bash
$ tox
```

Note that tox checks the exit status from the test command (lettuce) to
determine pass/fail, but the latest version of lettuce (0.2.5)
erroneously exits with a non-zero exit status indicating an error. So,
tox will report failures even if the test suite is passing. This
[should be fixed](https://github.com/gabrielfalcao/lettuce/pull/270) in
the next release of lettuce.

## Quick Start

Imagine that you want to use
[this csv file](https://static.bigml.com/csv/iris.csv) containing the
[Iris flower dataset](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_flower_data_set)
to predict the species of a flower whose `sepal length` is `5` and
whose `sepal width` is `2.5`. A preview of the dataset is shown
below. It has 4 numeric fields: `sepal length`, `sepal width`, `petal
length`, `petal width` and a categorical field: `species`. By default,
BigML considers the last field in the dataset as the objective field
(i.e., the field that you want to generate predictions for).

```csv
sepal length,sepal width,petal length,petal width,species
5.1,3.5,1.4,0.2,Iris-setosa
4.9,3.0,1.4,0.2,Iris-setosa
4.7,3.2,1.3,0.2,Iris-setosa
...
5.8,2.7,3.9,1.2,Iris-versicolor
6.0,2.7,5.1,1.6,Iris-versicolor
5.4,3.0,4.5,1.5,Iris-versicolor
...
6.8,3.0,5.5,2.1,Iris-virginica
5.7,2.5,5.0,2.0,Iris-virginica
5.8,2.8,5.1,2.4,Iris-virginica
```

You can easily generate a prediction following these steps:

```python
from bigml.api import BigML

api = BigML()

source = api.create_source('./data/iris.csv')
dataset = api.create_dataset(source)
model = api.create_model(dataset)
prediction = api.create_prediction(model, {'sepal length': 5, 'sepal width': 2.5})
```

You can then print the prediction using the `pprint` method.

```python
api.pprint(prediction)
```

You'll see:

```python
species for {"sepal width": 2.5, "sepal length": 5} is Iris-virginica
```

## Fields

BigML automatically generates idenfiers for each field. To see the
fields and the ids and types that have been assigned to a source you
can use `get_fields`:

```python
source = api.get_source(source)
api.pprint(api.get_fields(source))
```

and you'll get:

```python
{   u'000000': {   u'column_number': 0,
                   u'name': u'sepal length',
                   u'optype': u'numeric'},
    u'000001': {   u'column_number': 1,
                   u'name': u'sepal width',
                   u'optype': u'numeric'},
    u'000002': {   u'column_number': 2,
                   u'name': u'petal length',
                   u'optype': u'numeric'},
    u'000003': {   u'column_number': 3,
                   u'name': u'petal width',
                   u'optype': u'numeric'},
    u'000004': {   u'column_number': 4,
                   u'name': u'species',
                   u'optype': u'categorical'}}
```

## Dataset

If you want to get some basic statistics for each field you can
retrieve the `fields` from the dataset as follows:

```python
dataset = api.get_dataset(dataset)
api.pprint(api.get_fields(dataset))
```

You will get a dictionary keyed by field id:

```python
{   u'000000': {   u'column_number': 0,
                   u'datatype': u'double',
                   u'name': u'sepal length',
                   u'optype': u'numeric',
                   u'summary': {   u'maximum': 7.9,
                                   u'median': 5.77889,
                                   u'minimum': 4.3,
                                   u'missing_count': 0,
                                   u'population': 150,
                                   u'splits': [   4.51526,
                                                  4.67252,
                                                  4.81113,

                     [... snip ... ]


    u'000004': {   u'column_number': 4,
                   u'datatype': u'string',
                   u'name': u'species',
                   u'optype': u'categorical',
                   u'summary': {   u'categories': [   [   u'Iris-versicolor',
                                                          50],
                                                      [u'Iris-setosa', 50],
                                                      [   u'Iris-virginica',
                                                          50]],
                                   u'missing_count': 0}}}
```

## Model

One of the greatest things about BigML is that the models that it
generates for you are fully white-boxed. To get the model for the
example above you can retrieve it as follows:

```python
model = api.get_model(model)
api.pprint(model['object']['model']['root'])
```

You will get a explicit tree-like predictive model:

```python
{u'children': [
  {u'children': [
    {u'children': [{u'count': 38,
                    u'distribution': [[u'Iris-virginica', 38]],
                    u'output': u'Iris-virginica',
                    u'predicate': {u'field': u'000002',
                    u'operator': u'>',
                    u'value': 5.05}},
                    u'children': [

                        [ ... ]

                       {u'count': 50,
                        u'distribution': [[u'Iris-setosa', 50]],
                        u'output': u'Iris-setosa',
                        u'predicate': {u'field': u'000002',
                                       u'operator': u'<=',
                                       u'value': 2.45}}]},
                    {u'count': 150,
                     u'distribution': [[u'Iris-virginica', 50],
                                       [u'Iris-versicolor', 50],
                                       [u'Iris-setosa', 50]],
                     u'output': u'Iris-virginica',
                     u'predicate': True}]}}}
```

(Note that we have abbreviated the output in the snippet above for
readability: the full predictive model you'll get is going to contain
much more details).

## Creating Resources

Newly-created resources are returned in a dictionary with the
following keys:

* **code**: If the request is successful you will get a
    `bigml.api.HTTP_CREATED` (201) status code. Otherwise, it will be
    one of the standard HTTP error codes
    [detailed in the documentation](https://bigml.com/developers/status_codes).
* **resource**: The identifier of the new resource.
* **location**: The location of the new resource.
* **object**: The resource itself, as computed by BigML.
* **error**: If an error occurs and the resource cannot be created, it
    will contain an additional code and a description of the error. In
    this case, **location**, and **resource** will be `None`.

### Statuses

Please, bear in mind that resource creation is almost always
asynchronous (**predictions** are the only exception). Therefore, when
you create a new source, a new dataset or a new model, even if you
receive an immediate response from the BigML servers, the full
creation of the resource can take from a few seconds to a few days,
depending on the size of the resource and BigML's load. A resource is
not fully created until its status is `bigml.api.FINISHED`. See the
[documentation on status codes](https://bigml.com/developers/status_codes)
for the listing of potential states and their semantics.  So depending
on your application you might need to import the following constants.

```python
bigml.api import WAITING
bigml.api import QUEUED
bigml.api import STARTED
bigml.api import IN_PROGRESS
bigml.api import SUMMARIZED
bigml.api import FINISHED
bigml.api import FAULTY
bigml.api import UNKNOWN
bigml.api import RUNNABLE
```

You can query the status of any resource with the `status` method.

```python
api.status(source)
api.status(dataset)
api.status(model)
api.status(prediction)
```

Before invoking the creation of a new resource, the library checks
that the status of the resource that is passed as a parameter is
`FINISHED`. You can change how often the status will be checked with
the `wait_time` argument. By default, it is set to 3 seconds.

### Creating sources

To create a source from a local data file, you can use the
`create_source` method. The only required parameter is the path to the
data file. You can use a second optional parameter to specify any of
the options for source creation described in the
[BigML API documentation](https://bigml.com/developers/sources).

Here's a sample invocation:

```python

from bigml.api import BigML
api = BigML()

source = api.create_source('./data/iris.csv',
    {'name': 'my source', 'source_parser': {'missing_tokens': ['?']}})
```

or you may want to create a source from a file in a remote location:

```python

source = api.create_source('s3://bigml-public/csv/iris.csv',
    {'name': 'my remote source', 'source_parser': {'missing_tokens': ['?']}})
```

As already mentioned, source creation is asynchronous: the initial
resource status code will be either `WAITING` or `QUEUED`. You can
retrieve the updated status at any time using the corresponding get
method. For example, to get the status of our source we would use:

```python
api.status(source)
```

### Creating datasets

Once you have created a source, you can create a dataset. The only
required argument to create a dataset is a source id. You can add all
the additional arguments accepted by BigML and documented
[here](https://bigml.com/developers/datasets).

For example, to create a dataset named "my dataset" with the first
1024 bytes of a source, you can submit the following request:

```python
dataset = api.create_dataset(source, {"name": "my dataset", "size": 1024})
```

Upon success, the dataset creation job will be queued for execution,
and you can follow its evolution using `api.status(dataset)`.

### Creating models

Once you have created a dataset, you can create a model. The only
required argument to create a model is a dataset id. You can also
include in the request all the additional arguments accepted by BigML
and documented [here](https://bigml.com/developers/models).

For example, to create a model only including the first two fields and
the first 10 instances in the dataset, you can use the following
invocation:

```python
model = api.create_model(dataset, {
    "name": "my model", "input_fields": ["000000", "000001"], "range": [1, 10]})
```

Again, the model is scheduled for creation, and you can retrieve its
status at any time by means of `api.status(model)` .

### Creating predictions

You can now use the model resource identifier together with some input
parameters to ask for predictions, using the `create_prediction`
method. You can also give the prediction a name.

```python
prediction = api.create_prediction(model,
                                   {"sepal length": 5,
                                    "sepal width": 2.5},
                                    {"name": "my prediction"})
```

To see the prediction you can use `pprint`:

```python
api.pprint(prediction)
```

## Reading Resources

When retrieved individually, resources are returned as a dictionary
identical to the one you get when you create a new resource. However,
the status code will be `bigml.api.HTTP_OK` if the resource can be
retrieved without problems, or one of the HTTP standard error codes
otherwise.

## Listing Resources

You can list resources with the appropriate api method:

```python
api.list_sources()
api.list_datasets()
api.list_models()
api.list_predictions()
```

you will receive a dictionary with the following keys:

* **code**: If the request is successful you will get a
    `bigml.api.HTTP_OK` (200) status code. Otherwise, it will be one
    of the standard HTTP error codes. See
    [BigML documentation on status codes](https://bigml.com/developers/status_codes)
    for more info.
* **meta**: A dictionary including the following keys that can help
  you paginate listings:
    * **previous**: Path to get the previous page or `None` if there is
        no previous page.
    * **next**: Path to get the next page or `None` if there is no next
        page.
    * **offset**: How far off from the first entry in the resources is
        the first one listed in the resources key.
    * **limit**: Maximum number of resources that you will get listed
        in the resources key.
    * **total_count**: The total number of resources in BigML.
* **objects**: A list of resources as returned by BigML.
* **error**: If an error occurs and the resource cannot be created, it
    will contain an additional code and a description of the error. In
    this case, **meta**, and **resources** will be `None`.

### Filtering Resources

You can filter resources in listings using the syntax and fields
labeled as *filterable* in the
[BigML documentation](https://bigml.com/developers) for each resource.

A few examples:

#### Ids of the first 5 sources created before April 1st, 2012

```python
[source['resource'] for source in
  api.list_sources("limit=5;created__lt=2012-04-1")['objects']]
```

#### Name of the first 10 datasets bigger than 1MB

```python
[dataset['name'] for dataset in
  api.list_datasets("limit=10;size__gt=1048576")['objects']]
```

#### Name of models with more than 5 fields (columns)

```python
[model['name'] for model in api.list_models("columns__gt=5")['objects']]
```

#### Ids of predictions whose model has not been deleted

```python
[prediction['resource'] for prediction in
  api.list_predictions("model_status=true")['objects']]
```


### Ordering Resources

You can order resources in listings using the syntax and fields
labeled as *sortable* in the
[BigML documentation](https://bigml.com/developers) for each resource.

A few examples:

#### Name of sources ordered by size

```python
[source['name'] for source in api.list_sources("order_by=size")['objects']]
```

#### Number of instances in datasets created before April 1st, 2012 ordered by size

```python
[dataset['rows'] for dataset in
  api.list_datasets("created__lt=2012-04-1;order_by=size")['objects']]
```

#### Model ids ordered by number of predictions (in descending order).

```python
[model['resource'] for model in
  api.list_models("order_by=-number_of_predictions")['objects']]
```

#### Name of predictions ordered by name.

```python
[prediction['name'] for prediction in
  api.list_predictions("order_by=name")['objects']]
```

## Updating Resources

When you update a resource, it is returned in a dictionary exactly
like the one you get when you create a new one. However the status
code will be `bigml.api.HTTP_ACCEPTED` if the resource can be updated
without problems or one of the HTTP standard error codes otherwise.

```python
api.update_source(source, {"name": "new name"})
api.update_dataset(dataset, {"name": "new name"})
api.update_model(model, {"name": "new name"})
api.update_prediction(prediction, {"name": "new name"})
```

## Deleting Resources

Resources can be deleted individually using the corresponding method
for each type of resource.

```python
api.delete_source(source)
api.delete_dataset(dataset)
api.delete_model(model)
api.delete_prediction(prediction)
```

Each of the calls above will return a dictionary with the following
keys:

* **code** If the request is successful, the code will be a
  `bigml.api.HTTP_NO_CONTENT` (204) status code. Otherwise, it wil be
  one of the standard HTTP error codes. See the
  [documentation on status codes](https://bigml.com/developers/status_codes)
  for more info.
* **error** If the request does not succeed, it will contain a
  dictionary with an error code and a message. It will be `None`
  otherwise.
