docs/101_ts.rst, before:

BigML Bindings: 101 - Using a Time Series
=========================================

Following the schema described in the `prediction workflow <api_sketch.html>`_,
document, this is the code snippet that shows the minimal workflow to
create a time series and produce a forecast.

.. code-block:: python


    from bigml.api import BigML
    # step 0: creating a connection to the service (default credentials)
    api = BigML()
    # step 1: creating a source from the data in your local "data/grades.csv" file
    source = api.create_source("data/grades.csv")
    # waiting for the source to be finished. Results will be stored in `source`
    api.ok(source)
    # step 3: creating a dataset from the previously created `source`
    dataset = api.create_dataset(source)
    # waiting for the dataset to be finished
    api.ok(dataset)
    # step 5: creating a time series to forecast any numeric field in the dataset
    time_series = api.create_time_series(dataset)
    # waiting for the time series to be finished
    api.ok(time_series) # finished time series
    input_data = {"000005": {"horizon": 10}} # 10 points forecast for field ID 000005
    forecast = api.create_forecast(time_series, {"000005": {"horizon": 10}})

To learn more about the arguments that can be set in the `forecast` and
`timeseries` creation calls and the response properties, please have a look
at the `API documentation <https://bigml.com/api/>`_

If you want to produce your forecasts locally, you can use the `TimeSeries`
class in the `timeseries` module. A simple example of that is:

.. code-block:: python

    from bigml.timeseries import TimeSeries
    local_time_series = TimeSeries("timeseries/5968ec46983efc21b000001b")
    # 10 points forecast for field "Final" and 5 points for field "Assignment"
    local_time_series.forecast({"Final": {"horizon": 10},
                                "Assignment": {"horizon": 5}})

Every modeling resource in BigML has its corresponding local class. Check
the `Local resources <index.html#local-resources>`_ section of the
documentation to learn more about them.

Commit message:

Adding export functions for resources

docs/101_ts.rst, after:

BigML Bindings: 101 - Using a Time Series
=========================================

Following the schema described in the `prediction workflow <api_sketch.html>`_,
document, this is the code snippet that shows the minimal workflow to
create a time series and produce a forecast.

.. code-block:: python


    from bigml.api import BigML
    # step 0: creating a connection to the service (default credentials)
    api = BigML()
    # step 1: creating a source from the data in your local "data/grades.csv" file
    source = api.create_source("data/grades.csv")
    # waiting for the source to be finished. Results will be stored in `source`
    api.ok(source)
    # step 3: creating a dataset from the previously created `source`
    dataset = api.create_dataset(source)
    # waiting for the dataset to be finished
    api.ok(dataset)
    # step 5: creating a time series to forecast any numeric field in the dataset
    time_series = api.create_time_series(dataset)
    # waiting for the time series to be finished
    api.ok(time_series) # finished time series
    input_data = {"000005": {"horizon": 10}} # 10 points forecast for field ID 000005
    forecast = api.create_forecast(time_series, {"000005": {"horizon": 10}})

To learn more about the arguments that can be set in the `forecast` and
`timeseries` creation calls and the response properties, please have a look
at the `API documentation <https://bigml.com/api/>`_

If you want to produce your forecasts locally, you can use the `TimeSeries`
class in the `timeseries` module. A simple example of that is:

.. code-block:: python

    from bigml.timeseries import TimeSeries
    local_time_series = TimeSeries("timeseries/5968ec46983efc21b000001b")
    # 10 points forecast for field "Final" and 5 points for field "Assignment"
    local_time_series.forecast({"Final": {"horizon": 10},
                                "Assignment": {"horizon": 5}})

Or you could store first your time series information in a file and use that
file to create the local `TimeSeries` object:

.. code-block:: python

    # downloading the time series JSON to a local file
    from bigml.api import BigML
    api = BigML()
    api.export("timeseries/5968ec46983efc21b000001b",
               "filename": "my_time_series.json")
    # creating the time series from the file
    from bigml.timeseries import TimeSeries
    local_time_series = TimeSeries("my_timeseries.json")
    # 10 points forecast for field "Final" and 5 points for field "Assignment"
    local_time_series.forecast({"Final": {"horizon": 10},
                                "Assignment": {"horizon": 5}})


Every modeling resource in BigML has its corresponding local class. Check
the `Local resources <index.html#local-resources>`_ section of the
documentation to learn more about them.
